# Stage-specific abiotic and biotic associations of the imperilled Silver Shiner *Notropis photogenis* in an urban drainage
## **Authors**: Karl A. Lamothe and D. Andrew R. Drake
### In Preparation for review

Stage-specific abiotic and biotic associations are poorly described for many imperilled freshwater fishes, including Silver Shiner (*Notropis photogenis*; Threatened), which may limit species protection and recovery efforts. Here, we used fish and habitat sampling data from Sixteen Mile Creek, an urban drainage in southern Ontario, Canada to quantify stage-specific (adult vs. juvenile) detection probabilities for Silver Shiner and the influence of habitat measurements on occupancy and detection. We also investigated biotic associations for adult and juvenile Silver Shiner using principal components analysis, and Procrustes analysis to determine how the use of repeat surveys influenced ordination results. Detection probability of Silver Shiner was high (>0.80) across life stages, but occupancy models for adults and juveniles included unique habitat covariates. The top-selected model (lowest AICc) for juveniles included a negative association with stream velocity, whereas the top adult model included a positive effect of site depth. Distinct stage-specific biotic associations were also identified; a negative association was observed between adult Silver Shiner and co-occurring *Luxilus* species, whereas juveniles showed a marginally negative association. Overall, the high detection probability and concordance in ordination results across repeated surveys suggests that future monitoring of Silver Shiner in the Sixteen Mile Creek drainage could reduce the number of surveys per site to increase the number of sites sampled. Given the results demonstrated here, greater emphasis on stage-specific abiotic and biotic associations for imperilled freshwater fishes is needed to improve monitoring, habitat protection, and recovery efforts.